---
title: "F.A.Q"
bg: gray-orange     #defined in _config.yml, can use html color like '#010101'
color: black  #text color
style: justify
fa-icon: question
---

###How do I join the dojo? 
If you have not trained in aikido before, you must watch at least one full class. Visitors are always welcome, and no appointment is necessary. The largest classes tend to be on Monday and Wednesday evenings, and Saturday mornings at 9:00 a.m. Watching a large class will give you the opportunity to see a wide variety of ages, body types, and levels of experience. After you have watched a class, you must meet the chief instructor or the technical director for a brief, informal interview. The purpose of the interview is to ensure that the expectations of the prospective student mesh with those of the dojo.

###What do I need to begin training? 
Gym clothes, such as sweats, which cover your knees and elbows, are all you need. It is not necessary to purchase a uniform [gi] or wooden weapons before you start, but you should do so soon after joining the dojo.

###Where do I get a uniform and weapons? 
Please see our resources & links page for recommended suppliers.

###What does it cost? 
Dojo dues are $75 per month, with a slight discount available for full-time law enforcement, active-duty military, full-time students or teachers, and family members or significant others. 

###How often should I attend class? 
Attending class at least three times a week will tend to produce visible progress. If you are able to attend more often, you should do so.

###Do you have children's classes? 
No. Prospective dojo members must be at least 16 years old. Please see our [Children and Aikido](children-aikido.html) page for a discussion of this subject.

###I have old injuries or a chronic condition that interferes with ability to move easily. Will I be able to practice? 
It depends on the nature of the injury or condition. Generally, if you are capable of walking without assistance, you should be able to train at some level. Of course, you should consult your doctor before you begin training, and discuss your condition with the chief instructor.

###Can aikido be an effective method of self-defense? 
Yes. Aikido forms the basis of many law enforcement and correctional systems unarmed self-defense programs. The key to effective self-defense training is cultivation of the proper attitude. Physical technique alone is not sufficient to prevail in a conflict. The student of aikido learns through practice that attack and defense are really one thing.

###How long will it take me to earn a black belt? 
The typical student takes four to five years of consistent training -- three to five times per week -- to test for black belt. First-degree black belt (shodan) means that the student is now ready for serious study.
